[Music]
hey stop playing with matches oh wait
yes you can
14 matchstick puzzles only a mastermind
can crack matches aren't just good for
lighting up a room or committing arson
they can also help you light up your
intellect hit that thumbs up if you're
ready to give your brain a proper
workout with the help of these tricky
matchstick puzzles just don't set
yourself or anyone else on fire number 1
let's start with an easy warm-up even a
third grader will notice this equation
is wrong can you fix it by moving two
matchsticks around I'll give you 10
seconds to clean up this mathematical
mess
[Music]
we should turn the 4 into a 5 by taking
one match from the for itself and the
second one from six in for six there
that looks much better
number two yay more math we see that
seven minus two equals five no doubt
about it but can you move two
matchsticks to change the equation but
still keep it true you're ten seconds
start now
[Music]
here's how you can do it change the -
into a plus and transform the five into
a three tada
number three can you turn one big arrow
into two little copies remember the
copies have to be smaller but to scale
moving four matchsticks should do the
trick
[Music]
there you go no sorcery going on here
just the magic of brain power number
four an ageing farmer can no longer take
care of all his land on his own so he's
decided to split the territory up among
his four sons he wants to keep a quarter
of the property to himself its marked
with the letter A the remaining four
pieces have to be identical in size and
shape since that's only fair to each son
you can use eight extra matchsticks to
help the farmer try to settle this
family dispute in 15 seconds
[Music]
did you manage to find a solution here's
how it should be done now every son is
happy and so is the farmer himself
number five here we have five identical
squares can you turn them into four
squares also equal in size by moving
just three matchsticks you have ten
seconds to figure this one out
[Music]
time's up how did you do well it should
look like this
[Music]
number six listen up carefully for this
next task you need to move two
matchsticks around and get rid of one so
that in the end you get one I think 15
seconds will be enough for you to think
it over
[Music]
when I said you have to get one in the
end I meant it nobody said it had to be
a number number seven all these tough
riddles are making me thirsty too bad
these glasses are upside down and the
ice is on the table come on now use your
imagination the matchstick crosses are
ice cubes can you get the ice into the
glasses by moving four matchsticks the
distance between a and B is one
matchstick oh and you can't move the ice
or else it'll melt it's really sensitive
ice let's put 15 seconds on the clock
[Music]
time's up here's what you should have
done Cheers
[Music]
number eight time for some magic can you
turn this tree into a fish that's
swimming up you're only allowed to move
two matchsticks you get just 10 seconds
to wave your magic wand
[Music]
abracadabra I found Nemo just keep
swimming swimming swimming number nine
geography time how many countries are
there in Africa man just kidding the
real task is to divide the continent
into two parts with just two matchsticks
they have to be the same size but not
necessarily the same shape
[Music]
are you ready with your answer here's
the correct one number tat
here's another African riddle brought to
you by the ancient Egyptians you have
one triangle made of three matchsticks
can you turn it into four triangles
adding three matchsticks to it remember
ancient Egypt your time startsnow
[Music]
did you manage to build a pyramid come
on that Egypt hand was huge the three
extra matches have to be set up
vertically this way we get four
triangles on each side number eleven I
have three old picture frames and each
of them is 3x3 I was thinking of
repurposing them into a cool wall
decoration I want to get eight squares
in different sizes frames can overlap
but you can't remove any matches or
change the size can you help me with
this art project I'll give you 15
seconds to get your creative juices
flowing
[Music]
here's what I had in mind did you think
of the same pattern number 12 this
school of fish needs your help they're
following the leader eastward but they
want to go west can you turn this school
around by moving three matchsticks
these fish are really smart and can swim
backwards so don't worry about where the
heads are pointing here are your ten
seconds use them wisely
[Music]
as with most groups you have to start by
moving the leader then the second row
fish should be repositioned and done
number thirteen and back to math it's a
fun one I promise 993 is a pretty big
number try to make it as small as
possible by moving three matchsticks
you've got ten seconds
[Music]
what number did you get the lowest
number possible is 343 number 14 we'll
finish off with some magic this special
square has 12 matches in its left and
right columns and in the top and bottom
rows I challenge you to move four
matchsticks and rearrange the remaining
ones so that the square retains its
magic that is it should still have 12 in
all the rows and columns this task is
really hard so you'll have 30 seconds to
solve it think of all the possible
combinations
[Music]
are you ready to see the answer there
you go
pure magic
[Music]
so how many of these puzzles did you
solve let us know in the comments like
this video if it's giving your brain a
good workout and share it with your
friends so you can see who's the
smartest if you're new to our channel
hit the subscribe button so that you'll
be the first to see our cool updates
remember life is always better on the
bright side